
Adequate Security  - Security commensurate with the risk and the magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse or unauthorized access to or modification of information. Source: OMB Circular A-130 
Administrative Controls  - Controls implemented through policy and procedures. Examples include access control processes and requiring multiple personnel to conduct a specific operation. Administrative controls in modern environments are often enforced in conjunction with physical and/or technical controls, such as an access-granting policy for new users that requires login and approval by the hiring manager. 
Adverse Events - Events with a negative consequence, such as system crashes, network packet floods, unauthorized use of system privileges, defacement of a web page or execution of malicious code that destroys data. 
Application Programming Interface (API) - A set of routines, standards, protocols, and tools for building software applications to access a web-based software application or web tool. 
Application Server - A computer responsible for hosting applications to user workstations. NIST SP 800-82 Rev.2 
Artificial Intelligence - The ability of computers and robots to simulate human intelligence and behavior. 
Asset - Anything of value that is owned by an organization. Assets include both tangible items such as information systems and physical property and intangible assets such as intellectual property. 
Asymmetric Encryption - An algorithm that uses one key  to encrypt and a different key to decrypt the input plaintext. 
Audit - Independent review and examination of records and activities to assess the adequacy of system controls, to ensure compliance with established policies and operational procedures. NIST SP 1800-15B 
Authentication - Access control process validating that the identity being claimed by a user or entity is known to the system, by comparing one (single-factor or SFA) or more (multi-factor authentication or MFA) factors of identification.  
Authorization - The right or a permission that is granted to a system entity to access a system resource. NIST 800-82 Rev.2 
Availability - Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information by authorized users. 

Baseline - A documented, lowest level of security configuration allowed by a standard or organization. 
Biometric - Biological characteristics of an individual, such as a fingerprint, hand geometry, voice, or iris patterns.
Bit - The most essential representation of data (zero or one) at Layer 1 of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model.
Bot - Malicious code that acts like a remotely controlled “robot” for an attacker, with other Trojan and worm capabilities. 
Breach - The loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition or any similar occurrence where: a person other than an authorized user accesses or potentially accesses personally identifiable information; or an authorized user accesses personally identifiable information for other than an authorized purpose. Source: NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 
Broadcast - Broadcast transmission is a one-to-many (one-to-everyone) form of sending internet traffic. 
Business Continuity (BC) - Actions, processes and tools for ensuring an organization can continue critical operations during a contingency. 
Business Continuity Plan (BCP) - The documentation of a predetermined set of instructions or procedures that describe how an organization’s mission/business processes will be sustained during and after a significant disruption. 
Business Impact Analysis (BIA) - An analysis of an information system’s requirements, functions, and interdependencies used to characterize system contingency requirements and priorities in the event of a significant disruption. NIST SP 800-34 Rev. 1
Byte - The byte is a unit of digital information that most commonly consists of eight bits.

Checksum - A digit representing the sum of the correct digits in a piece of stored or transmitted digital data, against which later comparisons can be made to detect errors in the data. 
Ciphertext - The altered form of a plaintext message so it is unreadable for anyone except the intended recipients. In other words, it has been turned into a secret. 
Classification - Classification identifies the degree of harm to the organization, its stakeholders or others that might result if an information asset is divulged to an unauthorized person, process or organization. In short, classification is focused first and foremost on maintaining the confidentiality of the data, based on the data sensitivity. 
Classified or Sensitive Information - Information that has been determined to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status and classification level when in documentary form. 
Cloud Computing - A model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. NIST 800-145 
Community Cloud - A system in which the cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive use by a specific community of consumers from organizations that have shared concerns (e.g., mission, security requirements, policy and compliance considerations). It may be owned, managed and operated by one or more of the organizations in the community, a third party or some combination of them, and it may exist on or off premises. NIST 800-145
Confidentiality  - The characteristic of data or information when it is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized persons or processes. NIST 800-66 
Configuration Management - A process and discipline used to ensure that the only changes made to a system are those that have been authorized and validated.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED) - An architectural approach to the design of buildings and spaces that emphasizes passive features to reduce the likelihood of criminal activity. 
Criticality - A measure of the degree to which an organization depends on the information or information system for the success of a mission or of a business function. NIST SP 800-60 Vol. 1, Rev. 1
Cryptanalyst - One who performs cryptanalysis, which is the study of mathematical techniques for attempting to defeat cryptographic techniques and/or information systems security. This includes the process of looking for errors or weaknesses in the implementation of an algorithm or of the algorithm itself. 
Cryptography  - The study or applications of methods to secure or protect the meaning and content of messages, files, or other information, usually by disguise, obscuration, or other transformations of that content and meaning.  
